Add documentation describing handling of PICMI input (#3978)
ECP-WarpX/WarpX: Docs/source/developers/python.rst

.. _development-python:

Handling PICMI input files
==========================

There are two levels in the handling of the input files. The first is the Python level API that mirrors the input parameters and the

> second is the translation from the PICMI input to the input parameters. The two levels are described below.

Reviewer: The title is very confusing to me, how about this? :)

```suggestion
Processing PICMI Input Options
==============================

The input parameters in a WarpX PICMI file are processed in two steps.
The first step is the Python level API, which mirrors the :ref:`C++ application input structure <running-cpp-parameters>`; the second is the translation from the PICMI input to the equivalent :ref:`app (AMReX) input file parameters <running-cpp-parameters>`.

The two steps are described below.
```

Author: Not sure that "step" is the correct word here. How about "layers", the PICMI input layer and the C++ input layer?

Reviewer: Layer is good :)
```suggestion
Processing PICMI Input Options
==============================

The input parameters in a WarpX PICMI file are processed in two layers.
The first layer is the Python level API, which mirrors the :ref:`C++ application input structure <running-cpp-parameters>`; the second is the translation from the PICMI input to the equivalent :ref:`app (AMReX) input file parameters <running-cpp-parameters>`.

The two layers are described below.
```

Input parameters
----------------

In a C++ input file, each of the parameters has a prefix, for example ``geometry`` in ``geometry.prob_lo``.
For each of these prefixes, an instance of a Python class is created and the parameters saved as attributes.
This construction is used since the lines in the input file look very much like a Python assignment statement,
assigning attributes of class instances, for example ``geometry.dims = 3``.

Many of the prefix instances are predefined, for instance ``geometry`` is created in the file ``Python/pywarpx/Geometry.py``.
In that case, ``geometry`` is an instance of the class ``Bucket`` (specified in ``Python/pywarpx/Bucket.py``),
the general class for prefixes.
It is called ``Bucket`` since its main purpose is a place to hold attributes.
Most of the instances are instances of the ``Bucket`` class.
There are exceptions, such as ``constants`` and ``diagnostics`` where extra processing is needed.

There can also be instances created as needed.
For example, for the particle species, an instance is created for each species listed in ``particles.species_names``.

> This gives a place to hold the parameters for the species, for instance ``electrons.mass``.

Reviewer: To avoid confusion with all the *instance(s)*:
```suggestion
This gives a place to hold the parameters for the species, e.g., ``electrons.mass``.
```
